In this clip we're going to take a look at dedicated instances and hosts,
different ways of utilizing your instances at AWS.
So when I talk about a dedicated instance,
we're talking about something that is defined for a single customer.
So EC2 instances, got to be running in a VPC, dedicated to a single customer.
So this is isolated from any other instances that are not dedicated,
so anything in the VPC, in this case,
is a dedicated instance for a single customer.
You may have some unique compliance requirements,
so you might have HIPAA,
you may have something in your industry where you need this physical isolation.
So this dedicated instance physically isolated at
the hardware level of the host.
Now since I'm dealing with a single customer,
maybe I can share hardware with other instances from this same AWS account.
Yes I can do that.
And the tenancy of an instance, once it's been defined,
can't be changed from multitenant to dedicated after launch.
Now one other caveat,
the tenancy of the instance if it is a different type of dedication,
I'm being a little coy here,
but the tenancy can change from a dedicated instance
to a dedicated host after launch.
I thought this was dedicated.
Yeah, but the dedication is the instances dedicated to a single customer.
So we have dedication, we're on a single server,
but we're at a certain point of the stack.
So what's this dedicated host?
Well let's explain.
So a dedicated host, we go a little lower in the stack.
We say,
well you can have a physical server if you want with
a dedicated instance capacity.
So it's as close as we're going to get to bare metal at AWS.
If I have a compliance issue where I need something
from the cores on up to be dedicated, this might be for you.
So existing per socket,
per core or approved VM software licenses that require
access to the cores can be used.
So examples, Windows Server, SQL Server, Linux Enterprise Server.
So you could also be in a situation where you could have
additional security and not only is that my server,
I'm at the core level, I'm controlling the entire box.
Now we can control the cores, do some customizations,
based on the operating system that I deploy.
So kind of interesting.
So let's take a look at a comparison between the dedicated
host versus the dedicated instances.
We can see most of the features are for the dedicated host.
The visibility of the sockets, the cores and the host ID, dedicated hosts.
Since I have the whole box at that level I have affinity control
between the host and the instances that are hosted.
I've also got targeted instance placement because I control the whole box.
Now in the case of a dedicated instance,
because I have that separation with the dedicated instances in a VPC,
I can have automatic instance placement.
So I've got one of the features,
when I'm comparing to the dedicated host versus the dedicated instances.
There's really no performance security or physical differences between the
dedicated instances and instances on the dedicated hosts,
the distinct difference is the access to the cores,
the sockets,
that lower level based on the operating system that I want to install.
So let's take a look at dedicated instances,
where I would order them, what are my choices?
So we're going to look at some of the documentation because what we
want to find out is what kind of instances do I have to use in order
to actually get a dedicated instance?
Let's go down and take a look at a few options.
The region I'm going to do testing in is US East.
So I can pick an m4.
large.
The developers at Wired Brain Coffee want to do some work with the
database and they want to be a little more secure.
They've decided they're going to leave multi-tenancy behind and the owners
are really thinking this is a good idea to be absolutely sure the database
is absolutely separated because after all,
they're handling credit card information,
they don't have to adhere to PCI right now,
but maybe in the future they'll have to,
so they're looking at this seriously.
So they are going to start with an m4.
large box.
So let's go and set this up.
On the Services menu let's go into EC2,
for their database testing they're going to run a Windows
Server 2012 R2 and we want to do m4.
large and next configure our instance details.
Now here is where it gets interesting,
I don't want to put it in the default VPC because that's got public access,
I want a new VPC for doing all of this work.
So we're going to get serious and create a new VPC.
And we go over to the VPC console, let's click Create VPC,
the name tag, wired brain coffee, my CIDR,
what's my CIDR?
Well it's my numbering scheme in CIDR notation and
they give a fairly handy example, 10.
0.
0/24 and the block size between a /16 and 28 network mask.
So we're going to go with that.
Leaves us lots of room for growth.
And here's where the dedicated instances meet the security at the network level.
Yeah the VPC is an isolated portion,
what if I want to ensure that my tenancy is for only dedicated instances?
Well that's what I select when I'm creating the VPC and that
goes and creates it and now within that VPC,
only dedicated instances are going to be allowed
because the tenancy is dedicated.
So we'll do a refresh, here's my wired brain.
I guess the next thing we need is a subnet.
I've got subnets, but they're in the default VPC,
so to start off we will create a subnet.
My private database subnet,
we want to place it into wired brain and we'll pick 10.
0.
0/24.
It says righto, you've got a subnet,
let's go back and maybe I have to refresh this yet again,
private db subnet, auto-assign, we don't need public.
So now we're ready to go.
From this point forward we review and launch,
after we add storage, tabs, security, and we're good.
There's the steps for setting up a dedicated
instance and a VPC that's dedicated, no pun intended, to dedicated instances.